Edition 2021 blog post (#825)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2021-04-30-edition-2021.md

This choice is made *per crate* [as part of its `Cargo.toml`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-edition-field).
New crates created by `cargo new` are always configured to use the latest stable edition.

### Editions do not split the ecosystem

The most important rule for editions is that crates in one edition can
interoperate seamlessly with crates compiled in other editions. This ensures
that the decision to migrate to a newer edition is a "private one" that the
crate can make without affecting others.

The requirement for crate interoperability implies some limits on the kinds of
changes that we can make in an edition.
In general, changes that occur in an edition tend to be "skin deep".
All Rust code, regardless of edition,
is ultimately compiled to the same internal representation within the compiler.

### Edition Migration is easy and largely automated

Our goal is to make it easy for crates to upgrade to a new edition.
When we release a new edition,
we also provide [tooling to automate the migration](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/commands/cargo-fix.html).
It makes minor changes to your code necessary to make it compatible with the new edition.

> For example, when migrating to Rust 2018, it renames any variables named `async` to `_async`.

Author: I just tried it out with `cargo fix --edition`, and it results in `_async`. Different lint apparently?

> For example, when migrating to Rust 2018, it renames any variables named `async` to `_async`.

Author: Oh, that was just the 'unused variable' lint triggering first. (:  Yes, it uses `r#async`.

> For example, when migrating to Rust 2018, it renames any variables named `async` to `_async`.

Author: Updated.

So, the above example will compile fine in Rust 2021.

This new behavior is only activated in the new edition,
since it can change the order in which fields are dropped.
As for all edition changes, an automatic migration is available,
which will update your closures for which this matters.
It can insert `let _ = &a;` inside the closure to force the entire
struct to be captured as before.

### Panic macro consistency

The `panic!()` macro is one of Rust's most well known macros.
However, it has [some subtle surprises](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/3007-panic-plan.md)
that we can't just change due to backwards compatibility.

```rust
panic!("{}", 1); // Ok, panics with the message "1"
panic!("{}"); // Ok, panics with the message "{}"
```

The `panic!()` macro only uses string formatting when it's invoked with more than one argument.
When invoked with a single argument, it doesn't even look at that argument.

```rust
let a = "{";
println!(a); // Error: First argument must be a format string literal
panic!(a); // Ok: The panic macro doesn't care
```

(It even accepts non-strings such as `panic!(123)`, which is uncommon and rarely useful.)

> This is especially a problem when
> [implicit format arguments](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2795-format-args-implicit-identifiers.html)
> will be stabilized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will especially be a problem once
[implicit format arguments](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2795-format-args-implicit-identifiers.html)
stabilize.
```

That feature will make `println!("hello {name}")` a short-hand for `println!("hello {}", name)`.
However, `panic!("hello {name}")` would not work as expected,
since `panic!()` doesn't process a single argument as format string.

To avoid that confusing situation, Rust 2021 features a more consistent `panic!()` macro.
The new `panic!()` macro will no longer accept arbitrary expressions as the only argument.
It will&mdash;just like `println!()`&mdash;always process the first argument as format string.

In addition, `core::panic!()` and `std::panic!()` will be identical in Rust 2021.
Currently, there are some historical differences between those two,

> which can be noticable when switching `#![no_std]` on or off.

Reviewer: I think a brief reference to [panic_any](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/panic/fn.panic_any.html) here seems like a good idea.

we did *not* change the meaning of `:pat` in Rust 1.53.0 to include `|`.

Instead, we will make that change as part of Rust 2021.
In the new edition, the `:pat` fragment specifier *will* match `A | B`.

Since there are times that one still wishes to match a single pattern
variant without `|`, the fragment specified `:pat_param` has been added 
to retain the older behavior. The name is meant to signal that the main
time to use such a pattern is for closure parameters.

## What comes next?

Our plan is to have these changes merged and fully tested by September,
to make sure the 2021 edition makes it into Rust 1.56.0.
Rust 1.56.0 will then be in beta for six weeks,
after which it is released as stable on October 21st.

However, note that Rust is a project run by volunteers.
We prioritize the personal well-being of everyone working on Rust
over any deadlines and expectations we might have set.
This could mean delaying the edition a version if necessary,
or dropping a feature that turns out to be too difficult or stressful to finish in time.

That said, we are on schedule and many of the difficult problems are already tackled,
thanks to all the people contributing to Rust 2021! 💛

---

> You can expect another announcement about the new ediiton in July.

Reviewer 2: Tiny typo
```suggestion
You can expect another announcement about the new edition in July.
```

`(&array).into_iter()` due to [how method call syntax works][22].
Adding the trait implementation would change the meaning.

Usually we categorize this type of breakage
(adding a trait implementation) 'minor' and acceptable.
But in this case there is too much code that would be broken by it.

It has been suggested many times to "only implement `IntoIterator` for arrays in Rust 2021".
However, this is simply not possible.
You can't have a trait implementation exist in one edition and not in another,
since editions can be mixed.

Instead, we decided to add the trait implementation in all editions (starting in Rust 1.53.0),
but add a small hack to avoid breakage until Rust 2021.
In Rust 2015 and 2018 code, the compiler will still resolve `array.into_iter()`
to `(&array).into_iter()` like before, as if the trait implementation does not exist.
This *only* applies to the `.into_iter()` method call syntax.
It does not affect any other syntax such as `for e in [1, 2, 3]` or `iter.zip([1, 2, 3])`.
Those will start to work in *all* editions.

While it's a shame that this required a small hack to avoid breakage,
we're very happy with how this solution keeps the difference between

> the editions to an absolute minimum.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the editions to an absolute minimum while restricting any
added complexity exclusively to older editions.
```
I've seen a lot of people confused about the scope of this hack, so adding a single line to reemphasize that the hack isn't observable in the new edition could be useful.

are stabilized.
That feature will make `println!("hello {name}")` a short-hand for `println!("hello {}", name)`.
However, `panic!("hello {name}")` would not work as expected,
since `panic!()` doesn't process a single argument as format string.

To avoid that confusing situation, Rust 2021 features a more consistent `panic!()` macro.
The new `panic!()` macro will no longer accept arbitrary expressions as the only argument.
It will, just like `println!()`, always process the first argument as format string.
Since `panic!()` will no longer accept arbitrary payloads,
[`panic_any()`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/panic/fn.panic_any.html)
will be the only way to panic with something other than a formatted string.

In addition, `core::panic!()` and `std::panic!()` will be identical in Rust 2021.
Currently, there are some historical differences between those two,
which can be noticable when switching `#![no_std]` on or off.

### Reserving syntax

To make space for some new syntax in the future,
we've decided to reserve syntax for prefixed identifiers and literals:
`prefix#identifier`, `prefix"string"`, `prefix'c'`, and `prefix#123`,
where `prefix` can be any identifier.

> (Except those that already have a meaning, such as `b''` and `r""`.)

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this could say `b'...'` instead of `b''`? And similarly for `r""` and `f""` later. I first read this as `f""...`, i.e. a `f""`-prefixed string, which I guess isn't what you mean.
